---
output: pdf_document
---

\doublespacing
\begin{center}
Marginal Mediation: \\ 
A New Framework For Interpretable Mediated Effects \\
by \\
Tyson S. Barrett
\end{center}

\vspace{12pt}

The reproducibility problems found in many fields of science is concerning enough that it has been termed by some to be a "crisis." This may be an ample term given that meaningful knowledge generation requires reproducible results. Many talented researchers have proposed measures to reduce this problem, including pre-registering experimental research, utilizing better statistical methods, and reducing conflicts of interest. Among these, [@Cumming2014] suggested avoiding null hypothesis significance testing (NHST), which is by far the most used testing and reporting method; instead, he suggested using effect sizes and confidence intervals to show the uncertainty in the estimation. Beneficially, this can be be painlessly applied to mediation analysis, particularly in situations where the mediators and/or outcomes are categorical.

Mediation analysis is a key analytic tool in prevention research [@Coie1993] because it provides the ability to assess the process by which a predictor applies its effect on the outcome. This allows clinicians, interventionists, and policy-makers to better support protective factors and reduce risk factors. However, mediation analysis has issues as it comes to mediators and/or outcomes that are not continuous and approximately normal. In these situations, the units of the effect size are difficult to interpret, especially if considering the indirect effect and the total effect. 

Fortunately, Average Marginal Effects (AMEs) can produce results in the original units of measurement, thus allowing more simple and understandable interpretation in situations with categorical variables. Therefore, this proposal argues that the estimation of average marginal effects be integrated into mediation analysis. This new framework---termed *Marginal Mediation*---can be used to show moderation, can be used with latent variables in some situations, and can increase the interpretability of mediation analysis. Notably, it does not add any additional assumptions to the model.

To best develop, assess, and present this new technique, three research phases will be completed: 1) development of marginal mediation (including the software), 2) assessment of marginal mediation using a Monte Carlo simulation study, and 3) application on prevention data. Taken together, these phases will produce the theory and software to use Marginal Mediation, will inform on the guidelines of its use with real-world data, and will be used to assess novel mediated relationships regarding chronic illness and deliquency/substance use. 

It is expected that this proposed project will produce a new method that can ease interpretation in mediated effects; ultimately, increasing reproducibility of studies using mediation analysis and increase the ability for lay-persons to understand the findings.



\singlespacing